Hi there. In this video, I'm gonna show
you how to use the git clone command
to copy the files from our master repositories
in CS one zero seven into your own
directories so that you are able to do
your assignments. What we're actually using is a
program called Git, and it is a version
control system that you may or may not
have heard of before or used before. But
what it allows you to do is keep
a set of files in one place and
then copy them to another computer and work
on them. It's actually a very important tool
in software engineering. And you'll use git for
other classes here at Stanford and in the
real world. Or you'll use some other kind
of version control system. And it actually allows
you to keep copies of your files in
progress as well, which is somewhat nice too.
But what you can think of this as
doing is kind of the same as the
starter files for CS one zero six a
or CS one zero six b, except instead
of downloading a starter file, zip file onto
your own computer, you're gonna be working on
the Myth computer and you're going to be
copying the files into a directory that you
can use. So let me show you how
it works. We are going to first things
first, I'm logged on to Myth and what
what we're gonna do is we're going to
first create a c s make dir CS
one zero seven directory like that. And then
I'm gonna change into it, one zero seven.
And, you only have to do that once
at the beginning of the quarter. You'll never
have to create this file again, you'll always
just change into it. And then what we're
gonna do is we're gonna call this clone
command. And what you do is you say
git clone and then this big long path,
a f s slash slash a f s
slash I r slash class slash c s
one zero seven slash repos as in repositories
slash assign zero slash dollar sign uppercase U
S E R and then assign zero which
is the folder that it's going to create.
So when I do this, if all works
well, it will say cloning into assign zero
and then done. And now if we look,
we've got an assign zero and we can
change into it like that. By the way,
if you wanna see what that dollar sign
user actually stands for, you can do echo
dollar sign user like that and it will
say your username. So kind of a command
that you can take a look at. Alright.
So now you have the files there, this
is basically all your starter code. There's not
much starter code for assignment zero. But the
first thing you might wanna do is just
look at the readme dot t x t
file, which I'll open up in VIM, and
it's got some details in there that you
can take a look at. And, you're gonna
be able to use the, go to assignment,
the assignment zero web page, and you'll find
all the details about what you have to
add to this file and so forth. And
you'll also notice there's a samples directory in
here. And if we do l s dash
a l, you'll notice that the samples directory
is a symbolic link, which is handled in
a different video. You don't need to worry
too much about that except to say that
if you do c d samples, you're now
inside this folder as it turns out it's
the same exact folder and you won't be
able to access those files, because they're read
only to you. But those are the files
that you're gonna use for assignment zero. So
sometimes we'll give you a samples folder that
will have extra information that the entire class
will share and so that you can we
don't have to make multiple copies of those
individual files. Okay. So those that's how you
do the git clone to actually to get
the assignment into your own, directory. Then you
can write the assignment and then at the
end when you're gonna wanna when you're gonna
wanna submit it, there's gonna be two other
commands that you're gonna want to run. The
first is something that you don't have to
wait until you're ready to submit. You can
run this at any time and it's called
sanity check. And if you'll notice, there's also
a tools directory in here, which is where
sanity check lives. And if you are in
your assignment directory, you can just type tools
slash sanity check. And what that does is
it will run a program that checks your
program or your submission for, whether or not
it's correct enough to actually be graded. Not
doing the grading, but sometimes it will run
tests that you can see if it if
it's actually gonna pass some of those tests.
But some but it's the big deal the
big idea is it's running a program that
will say, hey, we will accept your submission.
In other words, if your program doesn't compile,
sanity check will fail and you won't be
able to submit, or you will be able
to submit, but it's not, recommended. Okay. So
if I run sanity check right now and
I haven't done anything in this assignment yet,
what it says is it's running some test
here and then it says, that the file
verify the file is not has changed. Well,
I didn't change anything yet. So it's gonna
say, nope. Not okay. Okay. So it actually
didn't change that. Now all I need to
do as it turns out is change something.
So I can say Chris Gregg and then,
write that to the file. And then if
I run sanity check again, watch this. It
says, oh, let's see. Oh, I didn't change
enough. I probably didn't change enough. So let
me let me just do this. Let's paste
my name a hundred times in here. Not
not that you wanna do that for your
assignment, but let's see if sanity check works
now. Nope. Still might not be enough changes.
So we'll look into that and make sure
it's working. But anyway, the point is that
you can run sanity check and it will
tell you how you're prior progressing on an
assignment and whether or not it's ready to
be submitted, as far as we're concerned. Again,
it doesn't doesn't do the grading for you,
but it can give you a lot of
information about how you're progressing as you're going
along. Okay. So once you run sanity check
and you've decided that, yep, I want to
submit this assignment, you can actually type tools
slash submit and from again, you have to
be in the assignment folder to run this.
And it will say this tool submits the
repo in the current directory, and it says
would you like to run sanity check? You
might as well. Right? And then it's going
to say, in my case, hey, it didn't
pass. Do you really wanna continue? And if
I say yes, it will try to continue.
And then in this case, we haven't set
the actual deadline, so it didn't submit anything.
But it's pretty easy to follow the instructions
for the submit. But that's how you actually
submit the assignment and you should make sure
that you get confirmation that your assignment has
been submitted, before you are done with the
assignment. And you definitely wanna do it before
the deadline because we generally don't accept assignments
after the deadline. So unless you talk to
us specifically about some exception. So anyway, those
are the three commands you're gonna need to
know, the git clone command and the sanity
check and the submit command. Thanks.